hello everyone today I'm going to show
you how to make an edible gingerbread
cookie bowl if my voice sounds a little
strange today is because I have a bit of
a cold so I apologize for that you're
going to need a gingerbread cookie dough
recipe this is the same recipe I used in
the my gingerbread log-cabin video as
well as the miniature gingerbread houses
video I'll put a link in the description
box to that video tutorial as well as
the recipe if you're interested so roll
this out to about a quarter of an inch
thick and then prepare the bowl I
suggest you use a metal bowl for this I
tried it with a glass bowl but I found
the glass was too much of an insulator
and the cookie didn't really cook all
the way through very well so a metal
bowl covered with aluminum foil wrap it
all the way around and then lightly
spray it with some cooking spray or just
grease it with a little bit of butter or
shortening and then you're gonna need
some little gingerbread pieces now the
way you cut these out is completely up
to you I decided to use a little flower
shaped cutter for this but you could use
any shape you want and then you're going
to cover the bowl with them I started
off at the top and then I worked my way
around
overlapping the pieces slightly and
pressing them together so that they
stick together and then you just
continue to go all the way around just
like I'm doing right now now when I got
to the bottom edge of the bowl I had to
make a decision of what I was going to
do now what I decided to do was to leave
that little scalloped shape of that
flower I wanted a little scalloped
border to go all the way around the bowl
a little wavy border I thought that
would be really cute but after it was
done I realized I probably would have
been better off cutting those flower
shapes in half directly across when I
got to the bottom edge and leaving a
straight edge around there I think that
would have been a little bit better it
but I'll show you how it turned out and
you can decide how you want to try to do
this
now to make this all I did was just take
the bowl just like it was and put it in
the oven on top of the oven rack I baked
it at 350 degrees for about 20 minutes
or so that'll really depend
on the thickness that you're going to
make your little shapes of course you
want to bake it until it's kind of like
golden-brown and when you touch the
cookies they feel firm and then you're
gonna let the bowl cool completely once
it's cooled completely you can remove
the bowl underneath it just just pop
right out and then remove the aluminum
foil and the aluminum foil released very
easily as well now if you under bake the
bowl you'll find that some of the
cookies in the center and the inside may
be a little undercooked mine was perfect
though I found all the cookies to be
cooked but not overcooked
now if you'll know what I mean by that
edge the edge didn't turn out as pretty
as I would like it it's all those flower
petals that I stuck on the edge they
folded a little bit as they were baking
because the dough has a tendency to
slide down a little a little bit on the
bowl while it's baking but overall I was
happy with the result and to serve the
cookies in it I decided to put a
cheerful and bright Christmassy paper
napkin inside just lined it with paper
napkins and then it's ready to put your
little treats and any kind of treats you
want of course and when you're done you
can wrap it up with plastic wrap and
like basket wrap and you're ready to
give it away as a gift if you want it's
a great way to serve some Christmas
goodies so there you go edible a
gingerbread cookie bowl give it a try
and to those of you that have stuck
around to the end of the video I'm going
to give you a guided tour of what's in
this cookie bowl if you are interested
for those of you that are gonna click
off well see you next time so here we go
top of the bowl you can see two
gingerbread people right below the
gingerbread people you can see a little
triangle gold shaped thing that is a
chocolate cookie triangle right next to
that below the gingerbread men are two
chocolate round balls those are Nutella
bourbon truffles right below that is a
cookie a round cookie with an orange
Center those are rosemary orange cookies
that video is coming up right below that
one is a basil honey cookie that video
is also to be posted
now below that could blow that basil
cookie are too flat cookies with red
sprinkles those are short breads above
that one is another one of those gold
cookie triangles now all the way over to
the right you can see some red and green
cookies those are spritz cookies above
that is a little vanilla crescent that's
been dipped in chocolate and has a few
little sprinkles on it dead center of
the of the video you can see some
chocolate chip cookie dough truffles and
there's also some peanut butter balls in
there as well and rain at the top are
those peanut those nutty pinwheel
cookies that I've already made so there
you go that's part of my Christmas
cookie collection for this year see you
soon